[core] Pyramid Attention Broadcast (#9562)
huggingface/diffusers: docs/source/en/api/pipelines/cogvideox.md

- [torchao](https://gist.github.com/a-r-r-o-w/4d9732d17412888c885480c6521a9897)
- [quanto](https://gist.github.com/a-r-r-o-w/31be62828b00a9292821b85c1017effa)

### Pyramid Attention Broadcast

[Pyramid Attention Broadcast](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.12588) from Xuanlei Zhao, Xiaolong Jin, Kai Wang, Yang You.

> Pyramid Attention Broadcast (PAB) is a method that speeds up inference in diffusion models by systematically skipping attention computations between successive inference steps, and re-using cached attention states. This is due to the realization that the attention states do not differ too much numerically between successive steps. This difference is most significant/prominent in the spatial attention blocks, lesser so in temporal attention blocks, and least in cross attention blocks. Therefore, many cross attention computation blocks can be skipped, followed by temporal and spatial attention blocks. By combining other techniques like Sequence Parallelism and CFG Parallelism, the authors achieve near real-time video generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pyramid Attention Broadcast (PAB) is a method that speeds up inference in diffusion models by systematically skipping attention computations between successive inference steps and reusing cached attention states. The attention states aren't that different between successive steps. The most prominent difference is in the spatial attention blocks, not as much in the temporal attention blocks, and finally the least in the cross attention blocks. Therefore, many cross attention computation blocks can be skipped, followed by the temporal and spatial attention blocks. By combining other techniques like sequence parallelism and classifier-free guidance parallelism, PAB achieves near real-time video generation.
```

> PAB can be enabled easily on any pipeline by deriving from the [`PyramidAttentionBroadcastMixin`] and keeping track of current inference timestep in the pipeline. Minimal example to demonstrate how to use PAB with CogVideoX:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable PAB with [`~PyramidAttentionBroadcastMixin.enable_pyramind_attention_broadcast`] on any pipeline and keep track of the current inference timestep in the pipeline.
```

```python
import torch
from diffusers import CogVideoXPipeline
from diffusers.utils import export_to_video

pipe = CogVideoXPipeline.from_pretrained("THUDM/CogVideoX-5b", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe.to("cuda")

> pipe.enable_pyramid_attention_broadcast(

Author: This cannot be used in the VAE. The paper demonstrates that the attention states between corresponding denoising steps of a denoising transformer do not differ much, and can be approximated by using attention states from previous timesteps for future timesteps up to an extent. There is no indication of why this property would hold in a VAE that use attention, and not sure why we would even want to do such an approximation in there
